hello search here for the backyard
driving range today I'd like to talk
about the grip and specifically the
lower hand on the golf club which would
be the right hand for right hand as the
left hand for left handers I think I've
said it in dailies before but I'll go
ahead and say it again because it always
never hurts to keep reminding you all of
good important issues that there now
when I do golf lessons private lessons
and golf schools I I do a grip check for
a grip pressure and also to check the
clubface alignment of the students the
grip pressure one as you know peak
performance golf swing says grip
pressure must be equal in both hands all
right so we want we want a relatively
firm grip on a on a grip meter from one
being very loose to five being too tight
we want to be about a three right in the
middle a relatively firm business
handshake and it must be equal in both
hands all right now I'm going to talk
from a right-handed perspective and do
it here because I am right handed and I
can do it a lot better here that way but
what do I still see a lot of when I do
to grip check I see I see
a lot less now but still see what I
would consider too much of the club just
moves completely moves in both hands but
I'm seeing a lot less of it so that
makes me feel good but what I still see
is that still it's too much I see it too
often is I can do this and the left hand
is fairly firm but the right hand is the
club just just moves the way I'm moving
it I can see the right hand it's no good
doesn't have enough grip pressure and in
many cases I can tell that right off the
bat and I know it's coming we're not
even doing it when I see a grip like
this where the the index finger of the
bottom hand the right hand for a righty
left hand for lefty is not even on a
golf club because therefore that means
that that there's no anchoring so to
speak of the club in the in the fingers
now one of the things I say to a lot of
folks is when I see this I said you ever
go fishing and fortunately I get enough
yeah
a lot of yeses from folks well if you
fish if cash if cast your rod with your
with that finger off no because you're
gonna you can't control a rod so the rod
is you hold the rod right in between
that that's what we call that I call the
pincher finger or the trigger finger
like triggering the pistol the trigger
on a pistol we want it to be in that in
that video but we don't want it ever
flopping in the V so if this if you have
this finger off right off the bat you do
not have your overall your right hand
very likely is not firm enough and
there's actually no control down here to
to really keep that club from flopping
around in that V never mind possibly
flopping around in your in your grip so
we want to get this we want to get this
wrapped around and the thumb comes on
top and a little figure like triggering
the pith trigger there's going to be
just enough pressure from this pointer
finger to get the end from the pointer
finger to to the thumb to make sure that
the grip does not flop around in that
hand so if it doesn't flop it on the
hand we don't have it it's not flat if
it's not flopping around the V it's very
likely not gonna flop around in here and
then we got to get this hand equal
pressure with this hand because there's
a lot of physics that states it's called
drag law of physics of drag says if two
or more things are involved in a
movement of an object they must be equal
because if they are not equal the one
doing lesser which would be the lower
hand doing lesser than the the upper
hand the greater hand to having more
pressure that condition that puts that
those two hands into a condition called
drag and drags a negative effect they
must be equal that is one of the
outstanding most important issues that
separates pp GS with us on that side of
the street and everybody else over there
okay and I still seeing way too much of
both hands a little loose but way way
too much
of the top hand being fairly firm and
the bottom hand still being on there
like it's holding a hot potato okay so
let's get let's get the grip equal in
both hands so that when they're equal in
both hands they can lift together they
can pull down together they can swing up
and over
shoulder and pull back down to the
recoil and relax together work together
as a unit in harmony same speed same
pressures same everything and when you
stay the same the swing will be much
more consistent much better time and
you'll be hitting much more solid and
consistent golf shots and that's the
recipe for playing better golf okay so
let's get that equal grip pressure on
both hands equal and you'll be hitting
it solid and straight and shooting those
low scores that's it for the search for
today and I'll be speaking with y'all
again so